  67 
   1 'tis almost morning; i would have thee gone:
   1 'tis but thy name that is my enemy;
   1 (enter romeo)
   1 (exit above)
   1 (exit)
   2 (exit, above)
   1 (juliet appears above at a window)
   1 (nurse calls within)
   2 (re-enter juliet, above)
   1 (retiring)
   1 [aside] shall i hear more, or shall i speak at this?
   2 [within] madam!
   1 a thousand times good night!
   1 a thousand times the worse, to want thy light.
   1 alack, there lies more peril in thine eye
   1 and all my fortunes at thy foot i'll lay
   1 and but thou love me, let them find me here:
   1 and follow thee my lord throughout the world.
   1 and for that name which is no part of thee
   1 and i am proof against their enmity.
   1 and i will take thy word: yet if thou swear'st,
   1 and i'll believe thee.
   1 and i'll no longer be a capulet.
   1 and i'll still stay, to have thee still forget,
   1 and make her airy tongue more hoarse than mine,
   1 and none but fools do wear it; cast it off.
   1 and not impute this yielding to light love,
   1 and sails upon the bosom of the air.
   1 and the place death, considering who thou art,
   1 and therefore thou mayst think my 'havior light:
   1 and what love can do that dares love attempt;
   1 and with a silk thread plucks it back again,
   1 and yet i wish but for the thing i have:
   1 and yet i would it were to give again.
   1 and yet no further than a wanton's bird;
   1 anon, good nurse! sweet montague, be true.
   1 arise, fair sun, and kill the envious moon,
   1 art thou not romeo and a montague?
   1 as daylight doth a lamp; her eyes in heaven
   1 as glorious to this night, being o'er my head
   1 as is a winged messenger of heaven
   1 as that vast shore wash'd with the farthest sea,
   1 at the hour of nine.
   1 at what o'clock to-morrow
   1 ay me!
   1 be not her maid, since she is envious;
   1 because it is an enemy to thee;
   1 being in night, all this is but a dream,
   1 belonging to a man. o, be some other name!
   1 bondage is hoarse, and may not speak aloud;
   1 but love from love, toward school with heavy looks.
   1 but that thou overheard'st, ere i was ware,
   1 but to be frank, and give it thee again.
   1 but trust me, gentleman, i'll prove more true
   1 but, soft! what light through yonder window breaks?
   1 by a name
   1 by and by, i come:—
   1 by any other name would smell as sweet;
   1 by love, who first did prompt me to inquire;
   1 by one that i'll procure to come to thee,
   1 by whose direction found'st thou out this place?
   1 call me but love, and i'll be new baptized;
   1 come to thy heart as that within my breast!
   1 deny thy father and refuse thy name;
   1 do not swear at all;
   1 dost thou love me? i know thou wilt say 'ay,'
   1 else would a maiden blush bepaint my cheek
   1 else would i tear the cave where echo lies,
   1 ere one can say 'it lightens.' sweet, good night!
   1 fain would i dwell on form, fain, fain deny
   1 for stony limits cannot hold love out,
   1 for that which thou hast heard me speak to-night
   1 forgetting any other home but this.
   1 good night, good night! as sweet repose and rest
   1 good night, good night! parting is such
   1 had i it written, i would tear the word.
   1 having some business, do entreat her eyes
   1 he jests at scars that never felt a wound.
   1 he lent me counsel and i lent him eyes.
   1 hence will i to my ghostly father's cell,
   1 henceforth i never will be romeo.
   1 her eye discourses; i will answer it.
   1 her vestal livery is but sick and green
   1 his help to crave, and my dear hap to tell.
   1 hist! romeo, hist! o, for a falconer's voice,
   1 how camest thou hither, tell me, and wherefore?
   1 how silver-sweet sound lovers' tongues by night,
   1 i am no pilot; yet, wert thou as far
   1 i am too bold, 'tis not to me she speaks:
   1 i come, anon.—but if thou mean'st not well,
   1 i do beseech thee—
   1 i gave thee mine before thou didst request it:
   1 i have forgot why i did call thee back.
   1 i have night's cloak to hide me from their sight;
   1 i have no joy of this contract to-night:
   1 i hear some noise within; dear love, adieu!
   1 i know not how to tell thee who i am:
   1 i shall forget, to have thee still stand there,
   1 i should have been more strange, i must confess,
   1 i take thee at thy word:
   1 i will not fail: 'tis twenty years till then.
   1 i would adventure for such merchandise.
   1 i would i were thy bird.
   1 i would not for the world they saw thee here.
   1 i'll frown and be perverse an say thee nay,
   1 if any of my kinsmen find thee here.
   1 if my heart's dear love—
   1 if that thy bent of love be honourable,
   1 if they do see thee, they will murder thee.
   1 if thou dost love, pronounce it faithfully:
   1 in truth, fair montague, i am too fond,
   1 it is my lady, o, it is my love!
   1 it is my soul that calls upon my name:
   1 it is the east, and juliet is the sun.
   1 it is too rash, too unadvised, too sudden;
  27 juliet
   1 lady, by yonder blessed moon i swear
   1 lest that thy love prove likewise variable.
   1 let me stand here till thou remember it.
   1 like a poor prisoner in his twisted gyves,
   1 like softest music to attending ears!
   1 love goes toward love, as schoolboys from
   1 may prove a beauteous flower when next we meet.
   1 my bounty is as boundless as the sea,
   1 my dear?
   1 my ears have not yet drunk a hundred words
   1 my life were better ended by their hate,
   1 my love as deep; the more i give to thee,
   1 my name, dear saint, is hateful to myself,
   1 my true love's passion: therefore pardon me,
   1 neither, fair saint, if either thee dislike.
   1 nor arm, nor face, nor any other part
   2 nurse
   1 o blessed, blessed night! i am afeard.
   1 o romeo, romeo! wherefore art thou romeo?
   1 o, speak again, bright angel! for thou art
   1 o, swear not by the moon, the inconstant moon,
   1 o, that i were a glove upon that hand,
   1 o, that she knew she were!
   1 o, wilt thou leave me so unsatisfied?
   1 of mortals that fall back to gaze on him
   1 of that tongue's utterance, yet i know the sound:
   1 or if thou think'st i am too quickly won,
   1 or, if thou wilt not, be but sworn my love,
   1 or, if thou wilt, swear by thy gracious self,
   1 remembering how i love thy company.
   1 retain that dear perfection which he owes
  26 romeo
   1 romeo!
   1 scene. capulet's orchard.
   1 see, how she leans her cheek upon her hand!
   1 shall i send to thee?
   1 she speaks yet she says nothing: what of that?
   1 she speaks:
   1 sleep dwell upon thine eyes, peace in thy breast!
   1 so loving-jealous of his liberty.
   1 so romeo would, were he not romeo call'd,
   1 so stumblest on my counsel?
   1 so thou wilt woo; but else, not for the world.
   1 so thrive my soul—
   1 stay but a little, i will come again.
   1 sweet sorrow,
   1 sweet, so would i:
   1 take all myself.
   1 than death prorogued, wanting of thy love.
   1 than those that have more cunning to be strange.
   1 than twenty of their swords: look thou but sweet,
   1 that birds would sing and think it were not night.
   1 that i might touch that cheek!
   1 that i shall say good night till it be morrow.
   1 that monthly changes in her circled orb,
   1 that thou her maid art far more fair than she:
   1 that tips with silver all these fruit-tree tops—
   1 the brightness of her cheek would shame those stars,
   1 the exchange of thy love's faithful vow for mine.
   1 the more i have, for both are infinite.
   1 the orchard walls are high and hard to climb,
   1 their books,
   1 then say, jove laughs. o gentle romeo,
   1 therefore thy kinsmen are no let to me.
   1 this bud of love, by summer's ripening breath,
   1 thou art thyself, though not a montague.
   1 thou know'st the mask of night is on my face,
   1 thou mayst prove false; at lovers' perjuries
   1 three words, dear romeo, and good night indeed.
   1 thy purpose marriage, send me word to-morrow,
   1 to cease thy suit, and leave me to my grief:
   1 to lure this tassel-gentle back again!
   1 to twinkle in their spheres till they return.
   1 to-morrow will i send.
   1 too flattering-sweet to be substantial.
   1 too like the lightning, which doth cease to be
   1 two of the fairest stars in all the heaven,
   1 unto the white-upturned wondering eyes
   1 well, do not swear: although i joy in thee,
   1 what i have spoke: but farewell compliment!
   1 what if her eyes were there, they in her head?
   1 what man art thou that thus bescreen'd in night
   1 what satisfaction canst thou have to-night?
   1 what shall i swear by?
   1 what's in a name? that which we call a rose
   1 what's montague? it is nor hand, nor foot,
   1 when he bestrides the lazy-pacing clouds
   1 where and what time thou wilt perform the rite;
   1 which is the god of my idolatry,
   1 which the dark night hath so discovered.
   1 who is already sick and pale with grief,
   1 who lets it hop a little from her hand,
   1 with love's light wings did i o'er-perch these walls;
   1 with repetition of my romeo's name.
   1 without that title. romeo, doff thy name,
   1 would i were sleep and peace, so sweet to rest!
   1 would through the airy region stream so bright
   1 wouldst thou withdraw it? for what purpose, love?
   1 yet i should kill thee with much cherishing.
